1. Moore's law says that the number of transistors on a chip will increase every 2 years. This is relevant to computing because generally more transistors means more computing power and faster computations. Due to physical restraints, there are limits to how fast a single core can go. Because of this, the programmer must consider other things to actually get this increase in performance. For example, parellism.
2. Essensially, the clock speed is how fast a single core can execute instructions. With pipelining, the clock speed can be increased without actually decreasing the time to exectute an instruction by starting to execute the next instruction before the previous is finished. In terms of FLOPS, a 500MHz processor can out perform a 1GHz processor if it has more cores. The 1GHz processor can perform individual instructions faster but if they 500MHz processor has more cores, it can perform more instructions at once.
3.
FLOPS - The good thing about FLOPS is that they provide a good way to compare how many actual computations can be done in time. FLOPS is good for comparing performance on large applications which need to do many opperations in a small time. Some problems with FLOPS are that you don't know how quickly a single instruction executes. So a program that doesn't have many operations back to back or a program which can't be parallelized might run in very different amounts of time on two different processors with the same FLOPS.

Clock speed - The advantages and disadvantages are almost the opposite of FLOPS. Clock speed tells you how fast a single opperations is performed which makes it a good judge of performance for programs with few repeated opperations. However, clock speed tells you nothing about the maximum number of operations you can run in a given time so it is a bad judge of performance for easily parallelizable programs.

Power consumption - The advantage for this is that generally more power means better performance for most programs. Faster clock speed and more cores increase power consumption. The problem is that this is not always the case. Newer processors are becoming more efficient which means that total power consumption doesn't necessarily mean faster. A more efficient processor could use less power but still be faster.
